# 网关——gateway

## 1 如何引入spring cloud gateway



```
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.cloud</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-cloud-starter-gateway</artifactId>
</dependency>
```



如果不想启用网关功能，spring.cloud.gateway.enable=false

### 1.1 注意事项

#### 1.1.1 必备知识

Spring Cloud Gateway基于springboot 2.x，spring webflux，project reactor。

## [2. Glossary](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-gateway/reference/html/#glossary)

- **Route**: The basic building block of the gateway. It is defined by an ID, a destination URI, a collection of predicates, and a collection of filters. A route is matched if the aggregate predicate is true.
- **Predicate**: This is a [Java 8 Function Predicate](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/function/Predicate.html). The input type is a [Spring Framework `ServerWebExchange`](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.x/javadoc-api/org/springframework/web/server/ServerWebExchange.html). This lets you match on anything from the HTTP request, such as headers or parameters.
- **Filter**: These are instances of [Spring Framework `GatewayFilter`](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.x/javadoc-api/org/springframework/web/server/GatewayFilter.html) that have been constructed with a specific factory. Here, you can modify requests and responses before or after sending the downstream request.

## [3. How It Works](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-gateway/reference/html/#gateway-how-it-works)

The following diagram provides a high-level overview of how Spring Cloud Gateway works:

Clients make requests to Spring Cloud Gateway. If the Gateway Handler Mapping determines that a request matches a route, it is sent to the Gateway Web Handler. This handler runs the request through a filter chain that is specific to the request. The reason the filters are divided by the dotted line is that filters can run logic both before and after the proxy request is sent. All “pre” filter logic is executed. Then the proxy request is made. After the proxy request is made, the “post” filter logic is run.

## [4. Configuring Route Predicate Factories and Gateway Filter Factories](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-gateway/reference/html/#configuring-route-predicate-factories-and-gateway-filter-factories)

There are two ways to configure predicates and filters: shortcuts and fully expanded arguments. Most examples below use the shortcut way.

The name and argument names will be listed as `code` in the first sentance or two of the each section. The arguments are typically listed in the order that would be needed for the shortcut configuration.

### [4.1. Shortcut Configuration](https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-gateway/reference/html/#shortcut-configuration)

Shortcut configuration is recognized by the filter name, followed by an equals sign (`=`), followed by argument values separated by commas (`,`).



